---
layout: post
title: Integrate Visual Studio with TortoiseSVN for free.
summary: Now there is another choice and is a set of configuration options to access TortoiseSVN from inside Visual Studio. The set of configurations provide a tools menus, context menu, and menu bar.
categories: [Tools, .Net]
---

We all know that <a href="http://www.visualsvn.com/" target="_blank">VisualSVN</a> is a really good plug-in to integrate with Subversion from inside Visual Studio. The free plug-in alternative is <a href="http://ankhsvn.open.collab.net/" target="_blank">Ankhsvn</a>.

Now there is another choice and is a set of configuration options to access TortoiseSVN from inside Visual Studio. The set of configurations provide a tools menus, context menu, and menu bar.

<blockquote>

The following Subversion/TortoiseSVN features are covered in the integration:

* Commit - Commit the files to the repository
* Update - Update the current working version
* History - Get the history for the selected file
* Diff - Get the diff compared to the base version
* Blame - Find out who committed the crimes in the file
* Revert - Undo local changes
* Modifications - Check to see if any files have been modified
* Edit Conflicts - Edit the conflicts that arise from merging/updating
* Resolve - Mark the file as resolved for conflicts
* Repository - View the repository on the server
* Project History - Get the history of the entire project
* Add Solution - Add the solution being edited to source control
* Branch/Tag - Perform a branch or tag on the current working copy
* Settings - Set up TortoiseSVN


</blockquote>

The menu bar uses the right logos and everything works very well. The only missing piece is marking the files with a little icon the way that Ankhsvn or VisualSVN do.

The true is that this set of configurations was easy to install and provides all the functionality you will ever need. I recently use them in my old laptop to commit from inside Visual Studio into <a href="http://code.google.com/p/latrompa/downloads/list" target="_blank">Google code</a> and I'm very pleased with the way it works.
