---
layout: post
title: Xcode license error when installing node.js on Mac OS
summary: The solution is simple, but can take you a moment to think of it.
categories: [node.js]
---

h3. The trace

Today I was trying to install the newest node.js version to update one of my apps running on Heroku.

I have been using nvm to easily run different versions of node for as long as I can remember and it always go very smoothly, so this time I was caught by surprise  when after doing <span class="code">nvm install v0.10.21</span> and the normal download status finished I got the following stack trace culminating on an error.

<pre><code>
    { 'target_defaults': { 'cflags': [],
                         'default_configuration': 'Release',
                         'defines': [],
                         'include_dirs': [],
                         'libraries': []},
    'variables': { 'clang': 1,
                   'host_arch': 'x64',
                   'node_install_npm': 'true',
                   'node_prefix': '/Users/hernangarcia/.nvm/v0.10.21',
                   'node_shared_cares': 'false',
                   'node_shared_http_parser': 'false',
                   'node_shared_libuv': 'false',
                   'node_shared_openssl': 'false',
                   'node_shared_v8': 'false',
                   'node_shared_zlib': 'false',
                   'node_tag': '',
                   'node_unsafe_optimizations': 0,
                   'node_use_dtrace': 'true',
                   'node_use_etw': 'false',
                   'node_use_openssl': 'true',
                   'node_use_perfctr': 'false',
                   'python': '/usr/bin/python',
                   'target_arch': 'x64',
                   'v8_enable_gdbjit': 0,
                   'v8_no_strict_aliasing': 1,
                   'v8_use_snapshot': 'true'}}
    creating  ./config.gypi
    creating  ./config.mk


    Agreeing to the Xcode/iOS license requires admin privileges, please re-run as root via sudo.


    gyp: Error 69 running xcodebuild
    Error running GYP
    ....
    IOError: [Errno 2] No such file or directory: 'out/Release/node'
    make: *** [install] Error 1
    nvm: install v0.10.21 failed!
</code></pre>

I noticed in the middle of it the following message.

__Agreeing to the Xcode/iOS license requires admin privileges, please re-run as root via sudo.__

h3. The solution

Of course, running the command using sudo is NOT the right answer. After thinking for a while I remembered that I did recently install an update to Xcode.

I decided to open Xcode directly and there it was, the new License Agreement dialog box.

Accept it, type in my password and close Xcode.

After that everything went back to normal.
