---
layout: post
title: A list of books for my team.
summary: Today I started to put together a list of books that I will like my team to read. The list started to grow so I have to do some triage. Here is the result.
categories: [Programming, Books]
---

A little bit more than 2 weeks ago I started to work at a new company. One of the goals is to help in the adoption of Agile, specifically Scrum and some XP practices.

So today I started to put together a list of books I will like my team to read. The list started to grow so I decided to do some triage.

First, let me stat that I think that all the books in these lists are extremely valuable and the only reason I divided them in different lists is because of time concerns.

I'm leaving some very process oriented books out of the list. I'm trying to keep it fairly technical and technology agnostic.

<em>There are two .net specific books since thats the platform we use. At the same time I consider CSS, HTML and JavaScript universal technologies. They are the foundation of the modern web, aren't they?</em>

I'm pretty sure that I'm missing some good ones from the list, but I think this is a good start (see below some suggestions from you, my dear readers).


h3. List of books that should be read.

"Clean Code: A Handbook of Agile Software Craftsmanship":http://www.amazon.ca/gp/product/0132350882/ref=s9_qpf_gw_i1?pf_rd_m=A3DWYIK6Y9EEQB&pf_rd_s=right-2&pf_rd_r=045XJ4WGE3VCZD9NE8DJ&pf_rd_t=101&pf_rd_p=1255588022&pf_rd_i=915398
Robert C. Martin

"Test Driven Development: By Example":http://www.amazon.ca/Test-Driven-Development-Kent-Beck/dp/0321146530/ref=pd_sim_b_2
Kent Beck

"The Art of Unit Testing: With Examples in .Net":http://www.amazon.ca/Art-Unit-Testing-Examples-Net/dp/1933988274/ref=pd_sim_b_5
Roy Osherove

"Refactoring: Improving the Design of Existing Code":http://www.amazon.ca/Refactoring-Improving-Design-Existing-Code/dp/0201485672/ref=pd_bxgy_b_img_b
Martin Fowler, Kent Beck, John Brant, William Opdyke, Don Roberts

"Agile Principles, Patterns, and Practices in C#":http://www.amazon.ca/Agile-Principles-Patterns-Practices-C/dp/0131857258/ref=pd_sim_b_3
Robert C. Martin, Micah Martin

"JavaScript: The Good Parts":http://www.amazon.ca/JavaScript-Good-Parts-Douglas-Crockford/dp/0596517742/ref=pd_bxgy_b_text_c
Douglas Crockford Douglas


h3. List of books that (also) should be read.

"Refactoring to Patterns":http://www.amazon.ca/Refactoring-Patterns-Joshua-Kerievsky/dp/0321213351/ref=pd_sim_b_7
Joshua Kerievsky

"The Pragmatic Programmer: From Journeyman to Master":http://www.amazon.ca/Pragmatic-Programmer-Journeyman-Master/dp/020161622X/ref=pd_sim_b_5
Andrew Hunt, David Thomas

"Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software":http://www.amazon.ca/Design-Patterns-Elements-Reusable-Object-Oriented/dp/0201633612/ref=pd_bxgy_b_img_c
Erich Gamma, Richard Helm, Ralph Johnson, John M. Vlissides

"Domain-Driven Design: Tackling Complexity in the Heart of Software":http://www.amazon.ca/Domain-Driven-Design-Tackling-Complexity-Software/dp/0321125215/ref=pd_sim_b_6
Eric Evans

"xUnit Test Patterns: Refactoring Test Code":http://www.amazon.ca/xUnit-Test-Patterns-Refactoring-Code/dp/0131495054/ref=pd_sim_b_2
Gerard Meszaros

"Succeeding with Agile: Software Development Using Scrum":http://www.amazon.ca/Succeeding-Agile-Software-Development-Using/dp/0321579364/ref=pd_bxgy_b_text_c
Mike Cohn

"User Stories Applied: For Agile Software Development":http://www.amazon.ca/User-Stories-Applied-Software-Development/dp/0321205685/ref=pd_bxgy_b_text_b
Mike Cohn

"Growing Object-Oriented Software, Guided by Tests":http://www.amazon.ca/Growing-Object-Oriented-Software-Guided-Tests/dp/0321503627/ref=pd_sim_b_6
Steve Freeman, Nat Pryce

"Restful Web Services":http://www.amazon.ca/Restful-Web-Services-Leonard-Richardson/dp/0596529260/ref=pd_sim_b_32
Leonard Richardson, Sam Ruby


h3. For designers and/or developers that work in UI

"Designing the Obvious: A Common Sense Approach to Web Application Design":http://www.amazon.ca/Designing-Obvious-Common-Approach-Application/dp/032145345X/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1285295739&sr=1-1 and "Designing the Moment: Web Interface Design Concepts in Action":http://www.amazon.ca/Designing-Moment-Interface-Design-Concepts/dp/0321535081/ref=pd_sim_b_1
Robert Hoekman

"Don't Make Me Think: A Common Sense Approach to Web Usability":http://www.amazon.ca/Dont-Make-Me-Think-Usability/dp/0321344758/ref=pd_sim_b_7
Steve Krug

"Designing with Web Standards":http://www.amazon.ca/Designing-Web-Standards-Jeffrey-Zeldman/dp/0321616952/ref=pd_sim_b_32
Jeffrey Zeldman, Ethan Marcotte

"Handcrafted CSS: More Bulletproof Web Design":http://www.amazon.ca/Handcrafted-CSS-More-Bulletproof-Design/dp/0321643380/ref=pd_bxgy_b_text_b
Dan Cederholm, Ethan Marcotte


h3. The missing books

Suggested by "Jack Carlton":http://twitter.com/JakCharlton

"Code Complete 2: A Practical Handbook of Software Construction":http://www.amazon.com/Code-Complete-Practical-Handbook-Construction/dp/0735619670/ref=sr_1_1?s=gateway&ie=UTF8&qid=1285299653&sr=8-1
Steve McConnell

"Ship it! A Practical Guide to Successful Software Projects":http://www.amazon.com/Practical-Guide-Successful-Software-Projects/dp/0974514047/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1285299830&sr=1-1
Jared Richardson

"Release It!: Design and Deploy Production-Ready Software":http://www.amazon.com/Release-Production-Ready-Software-Pragmatic-Programmers/dp/0978739213/ref=pd_bxgy_b_text_b
Michael T. Nygard

"The Mythical Man-Month: Essays on Software Engineering":http://www.amazon.com/Mythical-Man-Month-Software-Engineering-Anniversary/dp/0201835959/ref=pd_bxgy_b_text_b
Frederick P. Brooks


Suggested by Ron Myers:

"Pro JavaScript Techniques":http://www.amazon.com/Pro-JavaScript-Techniques-John-Resig/dp/1590597273/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1285375965&sr=1-1
John Resig
