---
layout: post
title: Building a Flickr based image showcase.
summary: Upon de demise of Jux I have to find out where and how to put my pictures. I decided that the best I could do was to build a simple multi layout site myself.
category: [node.js, javascript]
published: false
---

The idea was to try to replace Jux and integrate the image showcase into my blog. The blog is a static site generated using Jekyll. I wanted to host the images on Flick to reduce not only bandwitch but also the size of the slug when pushing to Heroku.

After a bit of browsing around I found a Jekyll plugin to insert images from Flickr.
The plugin worked well but I wanted to have a bit more control on the sizes of the images that I inserted in each individual post without having to change the template.

After a bit of work I came up with this:

<pre><code>
</code></pre>

The new plugin only exposes one public method `flick_img` that takes three parameters.

The image id (from Flickr) a string for the image size and an optional hash with attributes for the img tag.

This gives you complete control on how to insert your images on your Jekyll blog.

h3. Post definitions

I decided to define all the variables in the header of the post. I'm still not sure about some of the names for the attributes but so far this is what I have.

<pre><code>
---
layout: single
---
</code></pre>

h3. Layouts

I'm using multiple layouts for some different types of posts.
I decided to keep it simple and I was able to only create 3 different layouts.

A single layout that align the image to the right of the screen.
A center layout that try to go full screen on the image and center it in the window.
A slider layout that creates a simple automatic slider when I want to group multiple images together.

The slider is based on "this code":  but I made a few changes to accomodate for images of multiple sizes in my set among other things.

h3. Mosaic and the home page



h3. Responsive?

