---
layout: post
title: Why I think UX is one of the most important aspects of an application.
summary: In a comment on a recent post I was asked how and when I started to be interested in UX and design. I started to think about it and I decided that the best way to answer was to write a short post.
category: [General]
published: false
---

I think that my interested in usability started early in my career as a web developer. I remember reading "Molly E. Holzschlag":http://www.molly.com/ great column "Integrated Design" back in the turn of the century in "WebTechniques Magazine":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_Techniques_Magazine.

__BTW: Probably the best and only really useful magazine on web design and programming to date. I still remember reading about that obscure little language called Ruby. That was in the early years, way before Rails came to make it one of the most popular technologies around.__

As an example, I was able to dig out "this article":http://web.archive.org/web/20000816011222/http://webtechniques.com/archives/2000/08/desi/ with the help of the "WayBackMachine":http://web.archive.org

h3. Focus on usability and clean, uncluttered user interfaces.

Those were the times where most UX experts evangelize on minimal UI with as little trickery as possible. Jakob Nielsen was considered the foremost authority and a lot of us fall for the minimalist approach almost to a fault.

The important thing for me is that even today, with the evolution of the web and the new capabilities available in the modern browsers, a lot of what I read and learned in the late nineties still applies today.

