---
layout: post
title: Creating a collections plug-in for Jekyll.
summary: I need a simple collection plug-in that can generate a list of related post for that collection.
categories: [Jekyll, Ruby]
published: false
---

Jekyll can be easily extended with plug-ins. You drop your plug-in files in the <span class="code">_plugins</span> folder and you are up to the races.

There are different types of plug-ins, generators, converters, tags and filters.

You can read more about the Jekyll plug-in system on the "Jekyll site":http://jekyllrb.com/docs/plugins/

Almost a year ago I build a simple "filter that powers the image gallery on this site using images hosted on flickr.":http://blog.dynamicprogrammer.com/2013/07/14/building-a-flickr-based-image-showcase.html

I did check the existing collection plug-ins but they used in a different way. I just want to add some front-matter to my posts, similar to the way categories is used and add that information to the meta information available to the site.

I also want a filter that will create a list with the title and a link to the post that belong to the same collection.

h3. Grouping posts.

I will add a new attribute to the posts that belong to a given collection. For example the posts for my current Ionic series now look like this.

<pre><code>
	
	---
	layout: post
	title: Recording Geo location data with PhoneGap and Angular (Part 3).
	summary: We will be writing our Angular services that encapsulate some of PhoneGap API's.
	categories: [PhoneGap, JavaScript, Mobile]
	collection: Ionic
	---

</code></pre>