---
layout: post
title: Building the basic iOS UI and some geolocation work (Part 2).
summary: We start building the first page of the APP, capturing geolocation information and saving to files for future use.
categories: [PhoneGap, JavaScript, Mobile]
published: false
---

__This is part 2 of a series of articles that document my efforts on building a mobile application for iOS using web technologies.__

* "Part 1":http://blog.dynamicprogrammer.com/2014/02/26/building-ios-apps-with-phonegap-angular-and-ionic-framework.html

h3. Installing some plugins for phonegap.

The first thing to do is to install the platform we want to run our code on.

<pre><code>

    phonegap platform add ios

</code></pre>

__You need to have the ios-sim node packaged installed. You should be fine if you follow the instructions in the previous article.__

We will also install a pair of plugins; the device plugin is used by ionic to check device capabilities. We will also install the console plugin so we can use <span class="code">console.log</span> in our code while running code in the emulator.

<pre><code>

    phonegap plugin add org.apache.cordova.device
    phonegap plugin add org.apache.cordova.console

</code></pre>

h3. Building and launching the application for the first time.

Phonegap has two commands that we can use to build the application.
The build and the install command, they both take the platform that you want to build you application for.

The build command will only build the code, for example in ios it will create an Xcode project inside the <span class="code">platforms/ios</span> folder and also build the project under a <span class="code">build</span> folder inside the <span class="code">platforms/ios</span>.

The install command will try to install the application into a simulator or a device (if available) after building it.

I will create a script command on the <span class="code">package.json</span> file to save a few keystrokes to run the install command since we will be running it quit often.

Open the <span class="code">package.json</span> file and modify the scripts section to look like this.

<pre><code>

    "scripts": {
      "test": "node_modules/karma/bin/karma start tests/karma.config.js",
      "ios": "phonegap install ios"
    }

</code></pre>

Now we can run the command simply typing.

<pre><code>

    npm run ios

</code></pre>

h3. Create the home page and some basic navigation

h3. Working with the geolocation API.

h3. Saving geolocation data into a file.

h3. Next steps
