---
layout: post
title: Using Extension methods- Improving readability.
summary: I consider extension methods one of the most interesting features of the .Net framework. I like it so much because It brings some of the strength of JavaScript into the framework. The possibility of write stuff like this.Have fun!!!
categories: [Programming]
---

I consider extension methods one of the most interesting features of the .Net framework. I like it so much because It brings some of the strength of JavaScript into the framework. The possibility of write stuff like this.


<script src='http://gist.github.com/561828.js?file=file0.aspx-cs'></script>


An do stuff like this:


<script src='http://gist.github.com/561828.js?file=file1.aspx-cs'></script>


There are a lot of discussions about when to use extension methods and when not to. The problem is when you use extension methods instead of inheritance.

h3. Using extension methods to augment the framework or modify the language.

A clear choice for me is when you want to augment types, like the previous example of using PercentOf in an integer.Or what about this.


<script src='http://gist.github.com/561828.js?file=file2.aspx-cs'></script>


Or what about having a handy method to get the Unix Time right from the DateTime object?


<script src='http://gist.github.com/561828.js?file=file3.aspx-cs'></script>


Or the other way around


<script src='http://gist.github.com/561828.js?file=file4.aspx-cs'></script>


h3. Encapsulate functionality that you always do.

I need to use Reflection quite a lot for one of my projects and I have a set of methods to do some very common operations, like get a value from a property, get a list of properties, etc. What if those methods where available for you in every object?


<script src='http://gist.github.com/561828.js?file=file5.aspx-cs'></script>


And what about some handy string methods


<script src='http://gist.github.com/561828.js?file=file6.aspx-cs'></script>


Have fun!!! 

_Some of the utilities methods like Squeeze are part of the Subsonic Utilities library that I modified and turned into extension methods._