---
layout: post
title: ELMAH error handler for asp.net applications
summary: This looks very interesting. (from their site) ELMAH (Error Logging Modules and Handlers) is an application-wide error logging facility that is completely pluggable. It can be dynamically added to a running ASP.NET web application, or...
categories: [General, Tools]
---

This looks very interesting (from their site).

<blockquote>
ELMAH (Error Logging Modules and Handlers) is an application-wide error logging facility that is completely pluggable. It can be dynamically added to a running <a href="http://www.asp.net/">ASP.NET</a> web application, or even all ASP.NET web applications on a machine, without any need for re-compilation or re-deployment.

Once ELMAH has been dropped into a running web application and configured appropriately, you get the following facilities without changing a single line of your code:

* Logging of nearly all unhandled exceptions.
* A web page to remotely view the entire log of recoded exceptions.
* A web page to remotely view the full details of any one logged exception.
* In many cases, you can review the original <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yellow_Screen_of_Death#ASP.NET">yellow screen of death</a> that ASP.NET generated for a given exception, even with <tt>customErrors</tt> mode turned off.
* An e-mail notification of each error at the time it occurs.
* An RSS feed of the last 15 errors from the log.
* A number of backing storage implementations for the log, including in-memory, <a href="http://www.microsoft.com/sql/">Microsoft SQL Server</a> and several <a href="http://groups.google.com/group/elmah/files">contributed by the community</a>.


</blockquote>

p. I haven’t use it yet, but it really sounds like something that I see myself incorporating into my tool box. You can download it from <a href="http://code.google.com/p/elmah/" target="_blank">Google code</a>.
