---
layout: post
title: Have you ever wanted to learn Rails but you never wanted where to start?
summary:  I have been playing with both Ruby and Rails for maybe two years. Never doing anything really serious, like an external project for a client. I kind of know my way around it when I need it, but I still consider myself a Beginner.
categories: [General, Programming]
---

I have been playing with both Ruby and Rails for maybe two years. Never doing anything really "serious", like an external project for a client. I kind of know my way around it when I need it, but I still consider myself a Beginner. So when a few days ago I read this <a href="http://wanderingbarque.com/nonintersecting/2009/01/17/introducing-the-xprest-project/" target="_blank">post</a> about <a href="http://code.google.com/p/xprest" target="_blank">Xprest</a> I got exited.

<a href="http://code.google.com/p/xprest" target="_blank">XPrest</a> is; according to the project page (emphasis mine):

bq. This project is an open source enterprise expense reporting system. It's raison d'etre is to act *as an example system for showing how to build RESTful enterprise systems*. While it will be a functional expense reporting system, it is not designed to be a complete answer to enterprise expense reporting needs.

There are already a few articles in the wiki:

<a href="http://code.google.com/p/xprest/wiki/ProjectIntroduction" target="_blank">Introduction</a>
<a href="http://code.google.com/p/xprest/wiki/ProjectOverview" target="_blank">Overview</a>
<a href="http://code.google.com/p/xprest/wiki/DetailedRequirements" target="_blank">Requirements</a>

and maybe the most important

<a href="http://code.google.com/p/xprest/wiki/DevelopmentEnvironment" target="_blank">Development environment setup</a>

I suggest you tag along this project, it looks like the perfect opportunity to learn both a very good language and an excellent framework for development web apps.

I also suggest you subscribe to <a href="http://wanderingbarque.com/nonintersecting/" target="_blank">Pete Lacey's blog</a>
