---
layout: post
title: Adding changeset and followers support to node BitBucket.
summary: In version 0.0.5 I added support for changesets and followers.
categories: [node.js, Programming, JavaScript]
---

In version 0.0.4 I made a change on the node-bitbucket api to make sure that callbacks all respond to the <span class="code">cb(err, result)</span> format.

I refactored the code a bit more and moved the transport concerns into it's own module, so I hope to remove the dependency on <span class="code">curl</span> at some point without having the need to touch the parser.

The code to parse the response was also moved into it's own module. At the moment it's very crude and I will need to spend some time on it once all the end points are implemented.

As always install with npm.

<pre><code>
    npm install bitbucket-api
</code></pre>


h3. Changesets

The repository has two methods <span class="code">.changesets()</span> and <span class="code">.changeset(hash)</span>.

The <span class="code">changesets()</span> return an object with two methods to get a list of changesets or details on an individual one.

The <span class="code">changeset(hash)</span> needs the full hash a given changeset and will give you access to stats, diff, likes and comments for the changeset.

The <span class="code">comments()</span> method returns and object that allow you to create, list, upddate or delete comments for the changeset.

h3. Followers

As an extra, I added suport for the repository followers end-point. Very simple, just takes a cb and returns and object with the count and an array of followers for a given repository.
